# Assignment 03: Memory Management by Kevin Legarreta 

## Program Description:

This project simulates the following:

- Optimal Replacement Algorithm: Eliminates farthest away accessed page in the page table.

- Second Chance Algorithm: FIFO, eliminates the oldest page.

- WSClock Page Replacement Algorithm (WSCRA): Eliminates where referenced bit is equal to 0 and (age > tau OR the smallest TOLA if age > tau is never true).


Python library used: 

- sys: For the parsing of the input.

The program take a file with a sequence of virtual page access and simulates them using one of the previous mentioned algorithms. The output of the program will be the page faults generated by each algorithm. 

## How to run program:

Must use python3 to run all algorithms. 

To run the Second Chance Algorithm do:
```
python3 second.py <Number of physical memory pages> <access sequence file>
```

To run the Optimal Replacement Algorithm do:
```
python3 optimal.py <Number of physical memory pages> <access sequence file>
```

To run the WSClock Page Replacement Algorithm (WSCRA) do:
```
python3 wsclock.py <Number of physical memory pages> <tau> <access sequence file>
```

For each program to work the Number of physical memory pages must be an integer or a number that can be converted to an integer, the access sequence file must be in the form R:# or W:# if not it will stop the execution. For the WSclock tau must be able to be turn to an integer if not it will stop the execution. There is an implementation with the name wsclockRWbit.py that handles the W and R, means that if W is presents sets RW bit to 1 on W and if the page to be removed is dirty "writes" to disk, well actually just passes because nothing to be done.

## Contributors

This project was also done by myself. Just in case I disscussed the instructions with Jose, Christian, and Emmanuel Nieves. Later Luis contacted me to compare my output with his. Also Sara asked me a few question on the WSClock. Walter also contacted me for help understanding an Algorithm. Also I think his name is Marc De Jesus that told me the professor had sent an email, which landed on spam and thanks to him I could see the hints the professor gave us. 

Links I used to help me do the project:

- https://docs.python.org/2/library/sys.html
- http://www.pythonforbeginners.com/files/reading-and-writing-files-in-python
- https://docs.python.org/2/tutorial/datastructures.html

- On January 23, students that went to the classroom discussed the common erros and compared outputs, there I found an indented error on line 157 on wsclock.py and 160 wsclockRWbit.py.

## Notes

- wsclock.py and wsclockRWbit.py have on line 165 and 174 respectively, a commented line which I wasn't sure if that was how the case where age <= tau the arrow had to move to the removing page or not. So I implemented it without moving which generates less PF.

- The WSClock algorithm should at worst case only do two iterations around the page table.

- On the email the professor sent says: "Devuelve que no lo encontró." Which gives to understand that needs to give a print of what instruction caused the PF so I added a print in wsclock.py and wsclockRWbit.py in line 120 and 134, if that is not to be given as output can be deleted because they do nothing.